.\" -*- nroff -*-
.TH CHECKSECURITY 8 "2 February 1997" "Debian Linux"
.SH NAME
checksecurity \- Run a collection of simple system checks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B checksecurity
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B checksecurity
command runs a small collection of simple system checks which are designed
to catch a few common security issues.
.B checksecurity
is run by 
.B cron
in a daily basis.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The
.B checksecurity.conf
file defines several configuration variables:
.BR MAILTO,
.BR CHECK_DISKFREE ,
.BR CHECK_PASSWD 
and 
.BR CHECK_SETUID 
.BR LOGDIR .
Each is described below.
.PP
The checksecurity program works with a collection of plugins which are
located in /usr/share/checksecurity and are configured individually by
their own configuration file.

.B CHECK_PASSWD
If this is set to 
.B TRUE
then the check-passwd script will be invoked.  This script is designed to
report upon system accounts which have no passwords.
.B CHECK_DISKFREE
If this is set to
.B TRUE
then the check-diskfree script will be invoked and will allow an alert
to be sent if there is any mounted partition is running short on disk
space.
.B CHECK_SETUID
If this is set to
.B TRUE
then the check-setuid script will be invoked, this will compare the
setuid binaries upon the system to those that existed previously and
show the differences.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/checksecurity.conf
checksecurity configuration file

.SH "SEE-ALSO"
See also 
.BR check-diskfree (8),
.BR check-setuid (8),
.BR check-passwd (8)
and
.BR check-iptables-logs (8)
